# Sep 22 2022 DAE Workshop
* 13:00 - 13:30 - Introductions
* 13:30 - 14:00 - Recording Voice Prints
* 14:00 - 15:00 - Voice Cloning Toolkit
* << BREAK >>
* 15:15 - 15:30 - Voice Warmup
* 15:30 - 16:30 - Work Time!
* 16:40 - 17:00 - Presentations & Reflections



## 13:00 - Intro

In this workshop! I'm going to present my conceptual & artistic toolkit. Ask them to be part of this participatory work, and they can take these tools on with them.


### Contributions

Your contributions will become part of a dataset that is used to train the machine learning models of the BroadCast

You may opt to contribute, or have your contributions used under certain conditions (see: annotations)

The datasets themselves will not be distributed to the public, except in a mediated form through the training processes of the BroadCaster.

After the workshop you will have an extra week of time to reflect upon and edit your contributions / annotations.

And even withdraw them if you wish.


## General Audio Recording Disclaimer

My plan is to making various recordings throughout the workshop (e.g. of discussions, presentations, feedback)

These will be kept entirely for research and documentation purposes and not become part of the broadcast or be distributed.

Please let me know if you have a problem with documentation recordings of this type!


## 13:30 - 1m Voice Snapshot
Take a prompt, take 10 min to reflect on what you will say and how you will say it.

Grab a recorder (or connect to an audio interface) and make a recording.

Get the audio recording as a wav file on to your laptop.

Get everyone set up with a recording setup

* We have 3 zoom recorders + 2 Tascam recorders
* and 2 USB audio interfaces
* zoom recorders can also be used as USB interfaces if you like to record directly into Audacity

* When you're ready to record, ask those around you to be quiet.

* Also consider bringing a portable recorder to the bathroom! Or some other quiet space in the building!


# 14:00 - 15:00 ~ Voice Cloning Toolkit

## Preparing the Voice Print
* Record My Voice
* Cleanup / File Prep
* Import into audacity (at this point students can follow along)
* Normalize to 0db so that we have a reference point for listening.
* Critical listening: pay attention to details, noise levels, artefacts
* Noise Reduction
* Noise Gating (if desired for extreme audio clarity / reduced ambience)
* Compression (if desired to make the voice more "present")
* Renormalize
* Other cleanups (silence removal, artefact removal)
* Export as reasonable quality mono wav, include metadata!

## Using the Voice Cloning Toolkit
* Get google colab up and running
* Open the link / file > Make a copy

* Assuage fears about coding - for those who don't have experience, you will develop a little bit of literacy, but only what you need in order to use the tool.

In your copy
* (1) Connect to a runtime  
* (2) install dependencies  
* (3) import modules

Reflect: what did we just do?

* Very short intro to python (if needed) - students should be able to pick out what a comment is vs. non-comments, and be able to change string values in pre-written code.

* Upload your voice print

* Synthesize utterances (choose a language, an output file name should be autogenerated!) - would be great if these get generated like in the playback sampler!
* Download your utterances

## Composing in Audacity
if time allows! we can also do some composition in the earlier section on file prep
introduce basic multitrack possibilities and panning

# 15:00 - 15:15 BREAK!

# 15:15 - 15:20 Voice Warmup
If time allows!

# 15:20 - 16:30 Work time

Last week, told each other a story and recounted in the first person. Now you can make someone say something that they have never said.

what does "ancestry" mean to you? do you strongly associate to specific heritage(s) and lineage(s) genetic, cultural, practicing, environmental, etc.?  what is the material content of those heritages? what is the medium?

what would you contribute to an audible medium that will outlast you, using only your own voice? one that is not only mimetic (inscribing a copy/trace), but poietic (generative) of new artefacts that enter into a yet-unknown esthesic (receptive) ecology

what additional material/data/information/annotations would you want to accompany your voice, as a second layer, if any?

how much do you carry? do you echo? do you create? do you propagate? choose a "voice" from the media landscape you inhabit, one that you would want to be amplified for the benefit of future generations

Reflective exercise: what does ancestry mean to you? where do those ideas come from? Look at branches of heritage. What messages and knowledge have you inherited? To whom do those inheritances link you?

how does disembodiment from words and dialogue change what you say?: example bezos twitter war with Columbia prof

15:45 - Check in with Concepts on what people want to do

How do you ask someone for their voice?
Do you want to include them in your use of their voice? Do they want to be included?
How might you work together (either directly or indirectly)?
Reading together (recording)?
What will you say?
Using words we haven't chosen
Taking words from prominant voices online (echo)
writing and online search activities for text, writing a small text or song to read
how do you listen?

UPLOAD RESULTS! (1) Record a voice contribution for the Broadcast dataset, upload together with contextual/addition information to the local webserver.

# 16:40 - 17:00 - Presentation & Reflection
More time if possible!
